Flows with free surfaces are an especially difficult class
  of flows with moving boundaries.
The position of the boundary
  is known only at the initial time;
  its location at later times has to be determined
  as part of the solution.

If phase change at the free surface can be neglected, the following boundary conditions apply:
1. The [[Boundary Conditions#^6b8448|kinematic condition]] retuires that
       the free surface be a sharp interface 
       separating the two fluids
       that allows no flow through it.
2. The [[Boundary Conditions#^bed3ed| dynamic condition]] requires that 
       the forces  acting on the fluid at the free surface
       be equilibrium (momentum conservation at the free surface).
    In many applications the shear stress 
      at the free surface can eb neglected
      (e.g. ocean waves with no appreciable wave
      or waves generated by a large ship.)
    The normal stress and the effect of the surface tension
      are also often neglected.

Many methods have been used to find
  the shape of the free surface.
They can be classified 
  into two major groups:
1. Methods which treat the free surface as a sharp interface
      whose motion is followed ([[13.5.2 Interface-Tracking Methods|interface-tracking methods]]).
2. Methods which do not define the interface as a boundary
      ([[13.5.1 Interface-Capturing Methods| interface-capturing methods]]). 
    The computation is performed on a fixed grid,
      which covers fluids on both sides
      of the free surface.
    The shape of the free surface
      is determined by computing the fraction
      of each near-interface cell that is partially filled.
    This can be achieved by introducing massless particles
      at the free surface at the initial time and following their motion;
    This is called the Marker-and-Cell or MAC scheme 
      that was proposed by Harlow and Welsh (1965).
    Alternatively, one can solve a transport equation 
      for the fraction of the cell
      occupied by the liquid phase
      (The Volume-of-Fluid or VOF scheme, Hirt and Nichols 1981).