**<big>Definition 1.23</big>** Let $A$ and $B$ be two $n\times m$ matrices. Then
$$A\leq B$$
if by definition, $a_{ij}\leq b_{ij}$ for $1\leq i\leq n$, $1\leq j \leq m$.  If $O$ denotes the $n\times m$ zero matrix, then $A$ is *nonnegative* if $A\geq O$ and *positive* if $A>O$. Similar definitions hold in which "positive" is replaced by "negative".

**<big>Remark</big>**: The binary relation "$\leq$" imposes only a *partial* order on $\mathbb{R}^{n\times m}$.

**<big>Proposition 1.24</big>**: The following properties hold.
1. The relation $\leq$ for matrices is reflexive ($A\leq A$), antisymmetric (if $A\leq B$ and $B\leq A$, then $A=B$), and transitive (if $A\leq B$ and $B\leq C$, then $A\leq C$).
2. If $A$ and $B$ are nonnegative, then so is their product $AB$ and their sum $A+B$.
3. If $A$ is nonnegative, then so is $A^k$.
4. if $A\leq B$, then $A^T\leq B^T$.
5. If $O\leq A\leq B$m then $\lVert A\rVert_1\leq \lVert B\rVert_1$ and similary $\lVert A\rVert_{\infty}\leq \lVert B\rVert_{\infty}$.

**<big>Proposition 1.24
</big>**: Let $A$, $B$, $C$ be nonnegative matrices, with $A\leq B$. Then
$$AC\leq BC\quad \mathrm{and}\quad CA\leq CB. $$

**<big>Proposition 1.27</big>**: Let $A$ and $B$ be two nonnegative matrices, with $A\leq B$.  Then
$$A^k\leq B^k,\quad \forall k\geq 0.$$

****<big></big>**<big>Theorem 1.28</big>**: Let $A$ and $B$ be two square matrices that satisfy the inequalities then
$$O\leq A\leq B.$$
Then
$$\rho(A)\leq \rho(B).$$
**<big>Proof</big>**: The proof is based on the following equality stated in [[1.8 Canonical Forms of Matrices|Theorem 1.12]]
$$\rho(X)=\lim\limits_{k\rightarrow\infty} \lVert X\rVert^{1/k}$$
for any matrix norm. Choosing the $1-\mathrm{norm}$, for example, we have from the last property in Proposition 1.24
$$\rho(X)=\lim\limits{k\rightarrow \infty} \lVert A^k\rVert_1^{1/k}\leq \lim\limits_{k\rightarrow\infty}\lVert B^k\rVert_1^{1/k}=\rho(B)$$
which complete the proof.

**<big>Theorem 1.29</big>**: Let $B$ be a nonnegative matrix. Then $\rho(B)<1$ if and only if $I-B$ is nonsingular and $(I-B)^{-1}$ is nonnegative.

**<big>Definition 1.30</big>**: A matrix is said to be an *M-matrix* if it is satisfies the following four properties:
1. $a_{i,i}>0$ for $i=1,\cdots, n$.
2. $a_{i, j}\leq 0$ for $i\neq j$, $i,j=1,\cdots, n$.
3. $A$ is nonsingular.
4. $A^{-1}\geq 0$.