Consider a general sparse matrix $A$ whose elements are $a_{ij}$, $i,j = 1,... ,n$. A general Incomplete LU (ILU) factorization process computes a sparse lower triangular matrix $L$ and a sparse upper triangular matrix $U$ so that the residual matrix $R = LU − A $satisfies certain constraints, such as having zero entries in some locations. We first describe a general ILU preconditioner geared toward M-matrices. Then we discuss the ILU(0) factorization, the simplest form of the ILU preconditioners. Finally, we will show how to obtain more accurate factorizations.
# 10.3.1 Incomplete LU Factorizations
A general algorithm for building Incomplete LU factorizations can be derived by performing Gaussian elimination and dropping some elements in predetermined nondiagonal positions.

**<big>Theorem 10.1</big>**: Let $A$ be an [[1.8 Canonical Forms of Matrices|M-matrix]] and let $A_1$ be the matrix obtained from the first step of Gaussian elimination. Then $A_1$ is an [[1.8 Canonical Forms of Matrices|M-matrix]].

Clearly, the $(n-1)\times (n-1)$ matrix obtained from $A_1$ by removing its first row at first column is also an [[1.8 Canonical Forms of Matrices|M-matrix]].

Assume now that some elements are dropped from the result of Gaussian Elimination outside of the main diagonal. Any element that is dropped is a nonpositive entry which is transformed into a zero. Therefore, the resulting matrix $\tilde{A}_1$ is such that 
$$\tilde{A}_1 = A_1 + R,$$ where the elements of $R$ are such that $r_{ii} = 0$, $r_{ij} ≥ 0$. Thus, 
$$A_1 ≤ \tilde{A}_1$$
and the off-diagonal elements of $\tilde{A}_1$ are nonpositive. Since $A_1$ is an [[1.8 Canonical Forms of Matrices|M-matrix]], [[1.8 Canonical Forms of Matrices|theorem 1.33]] shows that $\tilde{A}_1$ is also an [[1.8 Canonical Forms of Matrices|M-matrix]]. The process can now be repeated on the matrix $\tilde{A}(2 : n, 2 : n)$, and then continued until the incomplete factorization of $A$ is obtained. The above arguments shows that at each step of this construction, we obtain an [[1.8 Canonical Forms of Matrices|M-matrix]] and that the process does not break down.